== Overview

This application is designed to serve JSON data in a RESTful manner for the
GMOD natural diversity module
[http://gmod.org/wiki/Chado_Natural_Diversity_Module] The three core objects
in the database are: Projects, Experiments, Stocks. As might be expected, a
projects consists of many experiments; experiments use one or more stocks;
stocks can be used in one or more experiments.
once an object is found; by adding the secondary object to the url it's
relations can be found:
e.g. /project/141 -> project/141/stocks = 'all stocks used in project 141'
/stock/2653/ -> /stock/2653/experiments = 'all experiments using stock 2653'

a natural hierarchy exists in the DB: project >> stock >> experiment
So retrieving a stock will retrieve all of that stocks experiments in a single
JSON object, and retrieving a project will retrieve all of it's stocks. To
collect only the base information about that object use the /head
function. i.e.: /project/141/head

as some population genomics projects are extremely large, we strongly suggest
that developers take into consideration response times when requesting large
volumes of data. 

== Background

This application is based on the ruby/actionrecord application server developed at the GMOD Evolutionary Biology Hackathon 2010 at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent, National Science Foundation Grant # EF-0905606 ) in Durham, NC.  The hackathon webpage is here[https://github.com/gmodevohack/gmodnatdiv].


== Implementations

A javascript library - itself heavily reliant on the Stanford Protovis tools
and Google Maps API V3 - is under construction. This will build visualisations
directly from the json stuctures which emerge from the above REST
server. An example server will be available soon; source code is available at: [https://github.com/sethnr/phenovis] 

